The BUG (Bivalue Universal Grave) class is fundamentally deprecated. It has been
superceeded by Coloring, XColoring, Medusa3DColoring, and finally GEM (Graded
Equivalence Marks) because they all find more hints in less time than BUG does.

I do not use BUG any longer; instead I use Coloring, XColoring, and GEM.
* BUG is slow and finds only the minimal coloring sets; those that outright
  invalidate the puzzle (ie a subset of contradictions, as eliminations).
* Coloring is the only one that does Multi-Coloring, ie uses multiple coloring
  sets to produce a hint.
* XColoring extends simple (single set) coloring to find more hints using some
  simple "extended" rules.
* Medusa3DColoring colors cell-values, not just cells. It finds more hints than
  XColoring, but for reasons I do not fully understand it doesn't find ALL of 
  the XColoring or even the simple Coloring hints, so one strongly suspects that
  there must be something very wrong with my implementation. sigh. But I don't
  use it, so I'm not worried about it enough to even attempt to fix it. Let the
  old bastard maunder in his own muck is my approach.
* GEM is a version of Medusa which finds all the same hints, and more besides.
  GEM is a partial implementation of the Graded Equivalence Marks specification,
  which I cannot understand, because I am stupid. It finds many more hints than
  Medusa3DColoring but I'm pretty sure it's still missing tricks because I have
  not implemented a few of the specified elimination criteria, because they make
  no sense to me: they're just gibberish. In fact the whole specification makes
  eff-all sense to me. I would need to interview the expert who wrote the spec
  in order to get my head around the problem in order to produce a comprehensive
  implementable specification document; probably on the back of a fag packet.
  That's always been the way, since before Adam was a lad.
* My GEM implementation started as a copy-paste of Medusa3DColoring, because 
  they are fundamentally the same problem, so it finds everything that Medusa
  does, and more besides.

Nothing is ever perfect.
