from: https://www.sudopedia.org/wiki

The picture files are in the ~/docs directory.

This is best read online, but if like me you don't have an internet connection
then this text version supplies the information, in text format. It's also a
point-in-time mark, insurance against the wiki disappearing, and has my notes.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3D Medusa Coloring
##################

from: https://www.sudopedia.org

3D Medusa or Advanced Coloring is a coloring technique that considers multiple
digits.

When the technique is limited to a single cluster, you can also replicate its
effects by placing Equivalence Marks in the pencilmark grid, making it a good
advanced technique for pencil and paper solvers.

When multiple clusters are used, this technique allows you to locate every
candidate-to-candidate chain in the grid.

Contents
========

    1 How it works
        1.1 Choose a starting digit
        1.2 Create a color cluster for the starting digit
        1.3 Mark opposite parities in bivalue cells
        1.4 Expand the cluster for the newly added digits
        1.5 Repeat the last 2 steps until finished
        1.6 Analyze the cluster

How it works
============

3D Medusa expands the rules for Simple Colors and Multi-Colors to include
multiple digits. When you apply colors to the candidates for a single digit,
you are working in a 2-dimensional plane of 9 rows by 9 columns. To see the
3-dimensional picture, think of each digit's plane as a layer in a 3D cube.
Since there are 9 digits, there are 9 layers in this cube. When there are only
2 candidates in a line in any of the 3 dimensions, you can give them opposite
colors, building clusters as you would do in 2D coloring.

Because it is a little far-fetched to turn every Sudoku into a 3D model, there
are a few simple rules that allow you to perform this technique in a
2-dimensional pencilmark grid.

Choose a starting digit
-----------------------

Because you should try regular coloring before 3D coloring, you must already
have some idea about the coloring possibilities for each digit. To select the
best starting digit, pick a digit that has 2 or more conjugate pairs, and
several of its candidates are located in bivalue cells. These bivalue cells
allow you to expand the coloring clusters beyond the single digit boundary.

Here is a pencilmarked grid that has no more basic solving techniques:

Medusa_1.png

For this grid, the starting digit is an easy choice, looking at the pattern for
digit 3. All remaining candidates form a single cluster, and there are 8
bivalue cells in the cluster, giving us ample opportunity to expand the cluster
to other digits.

Create a color cluster for the starting digit
---------------------------------------------

Do this the same way you would for simple coloring. Take a conjugate pair and
use opposite colors to mark parity. Grow the cluster by adding additional
candidates which are connected to it with a conjugate pair. Make sure that both
ends in each pair have opposite parities.

In our example, it is not too difficult to color this cluster:

Medusa_2.png

Mark opposite parities in bivalue cells
---------------------------------------

Check your cluster to see if there are bivalue cells where only one of the
candidates is colored. For each one you find, color the second candidate with
the opposite color.

In our example, we have to switch from coloring entire cells to coloring
individual candidates within a cell. All candidates for digit 3 that have a
particular parity have the same color, but now we have used the complementary
color for all bivalue cells that contain a colored digit:

Medusa_3.png

For the purpose of this example, we continue coloring the remaining digits.
However, in this stage you could already see something peculiar...

[being unfamiliar with 3D Mesusa, I see many peculiar things, but I have no
idea which one the author alludes to here, if it isn't an idiot author, then
I am an idiot that writes seriously complex computer programmes. Say it or not.
Never tease! Certainly NEVER tease and then stay stum. ~KRC]

Expand the cluster for the newly added digits
---------------------------------------------

For each candidate added in the previous step, check the remaining candidates
for that digit. If the candidate you're checking is part of one or more
conjugate pairs containing any recently added candidates, expand your cluster
by coloring the candidate you're checking with the opposite color from that of
the recently added candidate. Continue coloring for each digit until no more
candidates can be added.

In our example, we've added candidates for digits 7, 8 & 9 in the previous
step. After expanding the cluster with conjugate pairs for these digits, we get
this cluster:

Medusa_4.png

Repeat the last 2 steps until finished
--------------------------------------

Now see if the last step has added new bivalue cells to the cluster. If so,
repeat the last 2 steps until no more additions can be made.

Since no new bivalue cells were added in the last step, we are finished with
this stage of the example.

Analyze the cluster
-------------------

Now you can analyze the results. The first check is to see whether the cluster
contains a contradiction:

    2 candidates in a single cell have the same color.
    2 candidates for a single digit in a single house have the same color.

When a contradiction is found for a particular color, you can place all
candidates with the opposite color into their cells.

The next check is to see whether there are any candidates that can see both
colors of the cluster:

    2 colors appear in a single multivalued cell.
		=> The uncolored candidates can be eliminated.

    An uncolored candidate X can see two differently colored X.
		=> The uncolored candidate can be eliminated.

    An uncolored candidate can see a cell where the same digit is colored,
    while its own cell has another candidate with the opposite color.
		=> The uncolored candidate can be eliminated.

The last type of elimination is only possible in 3D coloring.

In our example, the candidate for digit 7 in r9c4 can see both colors:

Medusa_5.png

We can therefore eliminate digit 7 from this cell, which allows us to place the
remaining digit 2.

7 can also be eliminated from r7c9 since it can see a green 7 in r7c6 and a
blue 7 in r9c7.

